And I say in the Qur'an that which comes with it, its verses, it is the Generous, the Bestower
And I say, Allah Almighty said, and Mustafa, the Guide, and I do not turn back
Alhamdulillah, O Lord of the worlds, for him is the Praise of the Good, the Generous, and the Beautiful
And I pray that there is no god but Allah, one with no partner
He says the truth and guides the way, and I pray that Muhammad is His servant and His messenger
May Allah bless his family and companions, and we will follow them with goodness until the Day of Judgment
Insha'Allah, today we are going to speak about the life of Abu Ubaidah, seerah of Abu Ubaidah, ibn Al-Jarrah, radhiallahu anhu
He is called, his name is Abu Ubaidah ibn Al-Jarrah, Amir ibn Abdillah ibn Al-Jarrah, ibn Hilal ibn Wahib ibn Dabbah ibn Al-Harith, ibn Fihr ibn Malik, ibn Al-Nadr ibn Kinanat ibn Uzayma, ibn Al-Mudrikat
ibn Ilyas, ibn Muzari, ibn Nizar, ibn Ma'adin, ibn Adnan, ibn Al-Qurashi, ibn Al-Fihri, ibn Al-Makiyu
That's his name, he is Abu Ubaidah, Amir ibn Al-Jarrah
His father's name is Al-Jarrah ibn Abdillah ibn Al-Jarrah, ibn Hilal ibn Wahib ibn Al-Dabbah ibn Al-Harith, ibn Fihri ibn Malik, ibn Al-Nadr ibn Kinanat ibn Uzayma, ibn Al-Mudrikat, ibn Ilyas, ibn Muzari, ibn Nizar, ibn Ma'adin, ibn Adnan, ibn Al-Qurashi, ibn Al-Fihri, ibn Al-Makiyu
So he comes to the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam, ibn Fihri ibn Malik, he and the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam they come together there
Abu Ubaidah, he is considered Ahadu al-Sabiqeen al-Awwalin, the early people who entered Islam
And he was from the people that made that decision to give him the Khilafah
i.e. Abu Bakr chose to give him the Khilafah after the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
According to Abu Bakr, Abu Ubaidah, Amir ibn Al-Jarrah, he had Kamalu al-Ahliya, he was a really noble person
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam, he testified for Abu Ubaidah that he is going to attain Jannah while he was alive
And I don't know if many of you actually understand the magnitude of that
That you are walking on this earth and you know you are going to go to Jannah
All you know regarding the hereafter is that you are going to be from the people of Jannah
What is between you and entering Jannah is death
Brothers and sisters, that is not a light matter
All of these 10 that I am speaking about all of them while walking on this earth they knew they were going to go to Jannah
They were aware of it, the Prophet told them that they are going to enter Jannah
He said Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman, Ali
And Abu Ubaidah is from those 10 that the Prophet mentioned
The Prophet said to him you are going to enter Jannah
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam referred to Abu Ubaidah, Amir ibn Al-Jarrah, the Prophet referred to him as Aminul Ummah
The trustworthy of this Ummah
The virtues of Abu Ubaidah, Amir ibn Al-Jarrah r.a
The virtues regarding this man r.a who are very very large brothers and sisters
He narrated a hadith ma'aduda
He narrated a few amount of hadiths
But he participated in well known battles
He participated in well known battles
Malik ibn Yukhamir he said
Ma'ruq al-waj means he had little meat on his face
And the word it means
And the word it means chipped
That's the description and how he looked r.a
Yazid ibn Al-Rumanin he said
All of these men they came into Islam in the same moment
They are in the same place
And these are heavyweights in terms of virtue and position
Uthman ibn Mad'un r.a
Ubaidah ibn Al-Harith
Abdul Rahman ibn Awf
Abu Salamah ibn Abdul Asad
Abu Salamah is the husband of Umm Salamah
And also Abu Ubaidah ibn Al-Jarrah
All of those men r.a
They all came to the Prophet r.a
And the Prophet presented Islam to all of them
And he told them about the legislations of Islam
All of them they took Islam in the same place
Abu Ubaidah is a badri
Abu Ubaidah participated in the battle of Badr
And on the battle of Uhud
Abu Ubaidah showed his courage and strength
He showed what type of person he was
The battle of Uhud as we know the Prophet's helmet entered the Prophet's mouth
And Abu Ubaidah took it out of the Prophet's mouth
He was the one who took it out of the Prophet's mouth
Because the Prophet there was a wound that was placed on his helmet
And guess what happened
That's why he's
When I mentioned the description of his
I mentioned he was
His two front teeth
Because he was pulling out of the Prophet's helmet
That went into the Prophet's mouth
What happened to him was
So his tooth broke
And whenever he used to smile Abu Ubaidah
Whenever he would smile Abu Ubaidah
Those two front teeth
The beauty that would come out of it was amazing
The Sahabas loved him when they saw him
Because they knew why that happened to him
And Abu Ubaidah until it was said
And people really loved how he looked
And his appearance and his mouth the way it looked
Only because of why it happened to him
The reason behind it brothers and sisters
So that's what he did in the battle of Uhud
In the battle of Badr he participated
That's the kind of person Abu Ubaidah was
Abu Bakr said
Abu Bakr
When the people of Ansar went to the Saqifa
Bani Sa'idah
And they tried to take leadership for themselves
Remember I told you before
Ansar they said
We will choose a leader from ourselves
And you guys appoint a leader from yourselves
Yani Muhadirin
Appoint a leader from yourselves
And we will appoint a leader from ourselves
And remember Umar and Abu Bakr
They went to Ansar to tell them not to do such a thing
When Abu Bakr spoke
What Abu Bakr said was
I am pleased for two men
I love two men to be the leader for you guys
Don't do this Ansar
Don't appoint someone from amongst yourselves
But there are two men that I will suggest
And I think they should be the leader of the Muslims
Who are they? Umar and Abu Ubaidah
Umar ibn Al-Khattab and Abu Ubaidah
Amr ibn Al-Jarrah r.a
And you can find this hadith in Sahih Al-Bukhari
Abu Ubaidah was considered from the companions
Yani kana Abu Ubaidah ma'dudan fiman jama'a
Al-Qur'an Al-Azim
He was considered from the people who
Yani
When we say jama'a Al-Qur'an
And you hear this word
It means a hafidhu an zahri al-qalb
It's someone who memorized the Qur'an from memory
That's Abu Ubaidah Amr ibn Al-Jarrah
He was from the sahabahs
Who memorized the entire Qur'an
r.a
Our mother Aisha r.a
Anha she was asked
Ayyu ashabi Rasooli Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
kana ahabba ilayk
Amma kana ahabbu ilayhi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
kana ahabbu ila Rasooli Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Fa qalit Aisha r.a
Anha she responded and she said
Abu Bakr
Thumma Umar
Thumma Abu Ubaidah ibn Al-Jarrah
So the third person she mentioned
Was
Abu Ubaidah ibn Al-Jarrah
Yani he was
The third most beloved person to the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
At-Tirmidhi ibn Umad and Haqib narrative
Anas r.a
Anhu he mentioned
Anna an-Nabiya sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Qala that the prophet said
Likulli ummatin ameen
Every nation they have a trustworthy person
Wa ameen wa hazeel umma
The trust the most trustworthy person is
Umma Ayyusuu
Abu Ubaidah ibn Al-Jarrah
Bukhali al-Muslim both narrated this
Hudhaifa r.a also mentioned
He said
At-ta ila an-Nabi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Usqufa al-Najran
A priest or a
Yani
From Najran came a Christian
Priest
He came from Najran
Al-Aqib wa al-Sayid
Yani
Two two came from Najran
Usqufa al-Najran
Two priests came from Najran
And they were Christian right
The people from Najran were Christians
And
Faqala they both said
Iba'at ma'ana ameen
Ameen and haqqa ameen
They said to the prophet alayhi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Send with us a trustworthy
A very trustworthy person
The prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said to them
La ab'athanna ma'akum rajulan ameen
And haqqa ameen
I will send with you guys
Extremely trustworthy man
The people they stood up
And they wanted them to be the ones
Again people
The sahabas would only do that because
The description that the prophet is mentioning
Is something they want
Because this is coming from the prophet
Alayhi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Testifying to your character
So
The people they wanted to be that
But the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said
Abu Ubaidah stand up
And he sent
Abu Ubaidah
With them
Bukhan and Muslim both narrated it
Abu Ubaidah r.a
He was
Mawsoofan bi husni al khuluq
He was well known for his good manners
Wabil hilmi
He had a lot of forbearance
Wabil hilmi zaid
They say he was very very tolerant
Forbearance
Humility
These were characteristics that he had
And he was also
He was
He was very soft
Easy going
Very easy going
Musa uqbata he mentions in his maghazi
He said
So
He was afraid of Amr
So he
Sent the messenger of Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Abu Bakr and Umar
In a prayer of the emigrants
And the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Abu Ubaidah
When they came to Amr bin al-Aas
He said Amr
I am your emir
The emigrants said
Abu Ubaidah
This just really shows
What type of person he was
This is regarding the ghazwa of Amr bin al-Aas
Which is known as ghazwa to that salasil
By the way there were two ghazwa to that salasil
There was one at the time of the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And there was one at the time of Abu Bakr
This one is referring to the one at the time of the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Okay
So the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He placed as a leader
For the people
I mean
Abu Ubaidah
Amr bin al-Jarrah
But Amr bin al-Aas when he came
He said
I am your emir
So the people
They said
You are the emir of your people
And our emir
Abu Ubaidah
And our emir is Abu Ubaidah
When Abu Ubaidah
Amr bin al-Jarrah saw this
He was a person of good manners
Simple, easy, honorable
This is the type
He was a very
He was a gentleman
Abu Ubaidah
For someone who would follow the commands of the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Of the covenants
What did he do?
He placed the emir to who?
Amr bin al-Aas
And also
Indicating what type of person he was
Ibn Sa'di
Mentioned
One day said to the people
Who were sitting around him
All of you guys hope
Everyone started to wish
And hope for something
Omar said
I wish
A house
Filled with
Men like
Abu Ubaidah
Like Abu Ubaidah
Amr bin al-Jarrah
I wish a house
Filled with someone
Someone like this great man
This character
And every single house
Someone like this should be there
Allah fills him in a house
Subhanahu wa ta'ala
Khalifat Ibn Khayyatin
Mentions
He said
That
Abu Bakr al-Siddiq radiya Allah wa ta'ala
He appointed
Abu Ubaidah
By the way brothers
This is Minister of Finance now
He is looking after
Bayt al-Mal al-Muslimin
The ins and the outs
Because he was what?
Aminu hadhi umma
The most trustworthy man in this umma
Imam al-Dhahabiyyu said
After he put the call of
Khalifat Ibn Khayyatin
Of when he said
Walla Abu Bakr abu Ubaidah
Bayt al-Mal
He said
Here Bayt al-Mal al-Muslimin
Wasn't yet made
Bayt al-Mal al-Muslimin wasn't actually made
At the time of Abu Bakr
It wasn't
Bayt al-Mal al-Muslimin
Bayt al-Mal al-Muslimin was made
At the time of Umar radiya Allah anhu
Umar is the one who constitute the concept of Bayt al-Mal al-Muslimin
Here what Khalifat Ibn Khayyatin
Actually means is
Abu Bakr
Entrusted with Abu Ubaidah
Amwaal al-Muslimin
The wealth of the Muslims
Was under the supervision of
Abu Ubaidah. Pay attention now
It's then harder
For anyone to observe and look
At what Abu Ubaidah is doing
And we're going to see what type of person he was when he came to
Khalifat Ibn Khayyatin
He also mentions
He said
He sent Abu Bakr
To Sham
At the time of Umar
Khalifat Ibn Walid
And Abu Ubaidah
He sent Abu
Ubaidah to Sham
When the year was
At the time of Umar
When Islamic calendar was
13 Hijriya
Abu Bakr radiya Allah anhu
He sent Abu Ubaidah
Ameeran azalina
Wafiha stukhlifa Umar
And then after that
Umar took over
Abu Bakr died
And what did Umar do?
He took Khalid out of his power
Out of position
And he placed
Abu Ubaidah
And he placed Abu Ubaidah
Over the Muslims
I will tell a story later
Regarding how Abu Ubaidah
dealt with this situation
Tameem Ibn Maslamah
mentions
Umar
met
Abu Ubaidah
He mentions
Umar
radiya Allah anhu
He met
Umar met
Abu Ubaidah
He gave him
He shook his hand
Umar kissed the hand
Of Abu Ubaidah
And he started crying
And the voice starts to cry
He mentions
In his kitab
Which is Mataawil
He says Umar
Abou Ubaidah
Umar was the one who kissed the hand of Abu Ubaidah
It wasn't
Abu Ubaidah kissed the hand of Umar
Brothers and sisters
We already established
The position of Umar
Occupies
What type of person Umar radiya Allah anhu is
We spoke about that
Imagine
Think
How it feels
For Umar
How does it feel
That Umar radiya Allah anhu kisses the hand of someone
Unless that person is noble and great
He wouldn't do such a thing
Umar radiya Allah anhu
Understood the position
And the weight of Abu Ubaidah
Radiya Allah anhu
Urwa ibn Zubayrin mentions
He said
Urwa ibn Zubayrin
Said that
Umar radiya Allah anhu came to Sham
And all of the leaders
And everyone they met Umar
Faqala he said
Umar radiya Allah anhu said
Where is my brother
Abu Ubaidah
I want to see my brother
They said
He is going to come to you now
Abu Ubaidah came
He gave him salams
Then he said
Then Umar said to the people
All of you go
Umar went
With Abu Ubaidah
Until you came to his house
Umar stayed with Abu Ubaidah
Until they went to the house of Abu Ubaidah
All he could find was
He had a shield
A sword
And
The saddle
The saddle that he places on the horse
Faqala
Umar said to him
Why don't you just place some
Some furniture and some things in your house
Abu Ubaidah
Radiya Allah anhu
Said
The leader of the believers
This
Which I have right now
Is going to allow us to reach
Maqeelah
Arabs they say
This in other words
Is going to allow us to reach
A day we are going to rest
What I have right now is going to give us
The Qayloola that we are looking for
Qayloola is when you relax and you sleep
Abu Ubaidah saying I am a
I am a traveller on this earth
And this provision
That I have right here
It suffices me in this world
In other words
Abu Ubaidah is considering himself
That he is a traveller
On this earth
And that he is saying that this is my
This is my provision
It suffices me inshallah
To live in this world like this
He is saying that
This inshallah
Is sufficient for me
Is good for me
Suffices me
Until I reach
My real home
Where I am going to rest
That was his
Observation of this dunya
Radiya Allah anhu
Abdullah ibn Umar
The son of Umar
Abdullah he mentions
He says
When Umar came to Sham
He said to Abu Ubaidah
Take us to your house
Then Abu Ubaidah said
What are you going to do at my place
He said
All you want to do is
You want to look at my
Any properties
And see things
So you want to do
And in other words
He feels sorry for me
And
Be shocked with what you see
Do you want to see something that shocks you
And come to my place
He entered Umar radiya Allah anhu into his house
Umar couldn't see anything
So Umar radiya Allah anhu said to him
Where is your furniture
Where is your properties
Where is that all
He said
I can't see
I can't see in your house
Except
A little
Small
Mattress
The word
Is
Worn out
Vessel to drink water from
Got it
And you're the
Leader of Sham
You have food
He said
He showed him a little pot
That there was food in it
He said there's my food
He took out some little
Broken pieces of bread and stuff
From there
Umar started to cry now
Abu Ubaidah said
I told you at the beginning
You will see
Your eyes
I told you that your eyes are going to be taken back
And
I already told you
I already told you this before
That your eyes are going to be taken back
He said I said
I'm going to say to you this
What is enough for me
Is
That which is going to allow me to reach my
Place of resting
Not this dunya
I remember
He said
Wallahi that is the pure
Meaning and the pure understanding
Of zuhd
Aesthetism
La zuhdu
Man kana faqiran mu'diman
Aesthetism
Brothers and sisters
Zuhd is not a person who is poor
Hasn't got anything
And says I'm just going to be aesthetic
It's a person who can
Get what he wants
But he chooses not to
This is the type of person
He was
He said
Aba Ubaid
Was walking in the ranks
Of the army
And he was saying to them
He was saying to them
There's a lot
Whose clothing is so
Clean when you see their clothing
It's so white, it's crisp, sharp
Iron, taken care of
His religion is filthy, dirty, creased
So many people brothers and sisters
Honours himself
Puts himself high
But in reality he's harming himself
He's belittling himself
And he said
Hasten brothers
He said
The past sins that you have done
And you've committed
Hasten
With what?
Eradicated, expiated with what?
With righteous deeds and good actions
He said
Abu Ubaidah said
I am a man from Quraish
And you are not of the red
Nor black
They prefer me
With the fear of Allah
I only wanted to be like him
Abu Ubaidah he said
I am a man from Quraish
And there is not a black or white
Or any person on this earth
Who is better than me in Taqwa
I only wanted to accept
That I wish
I only wanted to be like him
Except that I wish I was in his skin
I mean
I wish I was
There is no one who is better than me in Taqwa
I don't care where he is from
I don't care where his ethnicity is
I wish I can be him
Black or white it doesn't matter to me
Your honour is with Allah
I mean
Being from Quraish or not it doesn't bother me
I want to be that person
I want to be in the skin of that person
That's Taqwa
Allahu Akbar
You see in Islam there isn't racism
There isn't
Sahabahs they learned that from the prophet
Alayhi Salatu was Salaam
Umar radiya Allah wa Anhu
There was a Ta'oon that happened called
Ta'oon wa Amwas
It took place it happened
And it was a place
Close to Bayt al-Maghdis
Umar radiya Allah wa Anhu
As soon as he heard the plague
He sent a letter
Like
He wrote a letter to Abu Ubaidah
Umar radiya Allah wa Anhu wanted to bring
Abu Ubaidah out of Sham quickly
Before the Ta'oon spreads
He wanted to take him out quickly
He wanted to save him
But he did it in a way Umar radiya Allah wa Anhu
In a smart way
So he wrote to Abu Ubaidah
And he said to him
There is a need I have for you
Abu Ubaidah
I am in need of you for something
I can't be without you on this issue
I need you so desperately
Hurry up
Leave Sham and come to me
When he read the letter
Abu Ubaidah realized
What Umar was trying to do
He knew Umar was trying to take him away
From Sham
And save him from the Ta'oon
The plague
So he wrote and he said
I know the need of Amir al-Muminin
He wants to save
Someone who is not going to remain
He wants to save someone who is not going to remain
So he wrote the letter to him
Amir al-Muminin
I know what you want
Please let me go
From what you want me to do
For you
I am a soldier
From the soldiers of the Muslims
I will not give
I will not give some speciality
To myself over my brothers
When Umar read the letter
He started to cry
He said to him
Abu Ubaidah died
Is that why you are crying
He said no
But it's like he did
The Prophet used the letter
Abu Ubaidah
Abu Ubaidah changed once
The Prophet used Abu Ubaidah
More than once
Abu Ubaidah was a special companion
The Prophet used him for armies and soldiers
Abu Waqin al-Siddiq used him
The war of Ahl al-Ghidda
The war of Musaylim al-Kadda
He used him
He was used
In other battles
I'm going to mention a story
That's going to really
Give you a deep understanding
The thinking process
The rationality
The intellect
The maturity
The piety of Abu Ubaidah
When it happened and it took place
The fall of Fihlin
The fall of Marj al-Sufr
Abu Bakr sent Khalid ibn al-Walid
To invade Iraq
Abu Bakr
What did he do?
He sent Khalid ibn al-Walid
To Iraq
Then he sent him
Khalid was going to Iraq
And then guess what happened?
Abu Bakr
He sent him
To aid and support the people of Sham as well
In other words, Khalid ibn al-Walid
Was told to be the leader of the people of Sham
And to basically help them against the Romans
And they siege Damascus
And that time Abu Bakr passed away
This is where I want the story
What did he do?
As soon as he came into power, he removed Khalid ibn al-Walid from power
He said you're not going to be the leader of the believers
So he sent a letter
And then what did he say?
He said the people of Iraq and also the people of Sham
They're going to fall under Abu Ubaid
When the letter reached Abu Ubaid
Abu Ubaid got the letter
And he saw the letter
As soon as he saw the letter
He put the letter in his pocket
He hid and concealed the people from this
From the people for a period of time
Why did he do that?
He did that because of his religion
He did that because of his softness
He did that because of his
Insight and forbearance
He wanted
The conquest of Damascus
Was because of his hands
Because Khalid was doing a perfect job
And right now if Khalid gets
Removed from the position
It could cause some disunity amongst the people
It could cause some mischief
Some things can happen from this
He's the man on the ground
He's boots on the ground to see what's happening
So he saw
That the wisdom was maybe not
At this moment to let this happen straight away
After the
The conquest of Damascus
Happened and
What happened took place Alhamdulillah
Khalid Abu Ubaid
Amr Jarrahi brought the letter out
And he showed it to the people
And that's when he became in charge
Of the army and he was placed in his hands
Wallahi brothers and sisters
He wasn't a person who loved power
Not at all
Rather the opposite
Abu Ubaidah radiAllahu ta'ala
He died from this plague
That happened in Sham
He died
Abu Ubaidah from this
Ta'un
And he died very young
He was only 58 years of age
radiAllahu ta'ala alhum
I'm going to conclude there inshaAllah
Anything which I have said that was wrong or incorrect
Is from me and shaytan and Allah and his messenger
Are both free from it
SubhanakAllah
We're now teaching
Exclusive live online classes
To our students via Patreon
We have three classes every single week
A beginners class, an intermediate class
And an advanced class which is taught in Arabic
If you want to find out more details
And are interested in joining
Visit patreon.com forward slash amau